## Archival Context
Context in archives is the sum of all the pieces of information that tell us the Who, What, Why, When, Where, and How that breathe meaning into an otherwise meaningless file or document. (It is also why archivists are sticklers for not disturbing whatever order a collection arrives in when it hits their doorstep.) Let’s unpack what makes archival description and subsequent discovery and retrieval a complex affair, starting with a key feature of archival materials: with some exceptions (e.g. ledgers and, to some degree, correspondence) they tend not to declare themselves in the way published materials do, making archival description fundamentally different from bibliographic description. Archival resources generally don’t bear a title and frequently don’t bear a date or attribution. This means the identity of an archival resource may not be obvious from information contained in the resource itself, but must be inferred in other ways. 

In archives, a primary pathway to identifying what any file, document, photograph, film or other resource actually is, is from the resource’s Context. Context in an archival sense means the different pieces of information that all work together to identify a resource, like the agents, places, and events associated with the resource. This could be as straightforward as a [letter from Benjamin Tallmadge written to George Washington in Bedford on November 29th, 1778](https://findingaids.princeton.edu/catalog/C0243_c020)–pieces of information we can get from the single source of the document itself: the letter’s heading (date and place), the outside of the letterpacket (addressee), and the valediction (author). Two agents/correspondents, a place, a date–boom, that was easy! 

Now let’s consider a not-so-straightforward scenario, common in archives: say a sheet from a yellow legal pad neatly covered with addresses. Who are these people, what is this list?! Luckily, another kind of archival Context comes to the rescue: the fact that this list is tucked into a file folder labeled [Canvassing and Registration, 1968](https://findingaids.princeton.edu/catalog/MC181_c00784) (hmmmm, not super helpful… something to do with voting perhaps?) which is part of a file group identified in the finding aid as "Volunteers, 1968" (warmer), which in turn is part of a file group identified as "1968 Senate Campaign, 1962-1968" (aha! A senate campaign! But whose?), which is part of a collection of office files acquired from Senator George McGovern in 1981. Bingo! We’re looking at a file of contacts for volunteers working on canvassing and voter registration for George McGovern’s 1968 run for senate. In this scenario, we got no help from the document itself. Instead, we had to look to different parts of Senator McGovern’s office filing system to retro-engineer the meaning of the yellow legal sheet: the file folder (a date and a socio-historical clue), the intellectual unit that  the folder is a part of (date and function of the addresses), and the collection’s history (creator of the files).

This kind of foundational Context, i.e. the physical juxtaposition and placement of any single document or file within other files within the filing system or arrangement in which those files were either created or maintained, is unique to archives and at the same time frequently the only way of understanding the nature of any given body of archival material. So crucial is Context to archival discovery that it gets a capital "C" setting it apart from ordinary context! 

To establish archival Context, archival description traditionally proceeds by describing aggregates, or groups of records, rather than individual items, going from largest to smallest, i.e. from a birds-eye-view level of describing a whole grouping of papers–a collection or fonds–to its ever-smaller component aggregates, like series or files. Only in rare cases in this iterative process does archival description arrive at the lowest-possible level of creating a record for a single item.


## Exercise
Go to the PUL Finding Aids portal and look at [this record](https://findingaids.princeton.edu/catalog/MC001-04#). Considering its Context, can you infer what the material described here is?

When you're finished, here's a "big reveal" [article](https://www.aclu.org/documents/fact-sheet-childrens-internet-protection-act) that you can compare your conclusions against!